docs/examples/gmail.md, before:

# Gmail Assistant

The **Gmail Assistant** is a task-oriented agentic system designed to help users manage their Gmail accounts efficiently. It leverages a specialized toolkit of Gmail-related tools—such as searching, reading, drafting, and sending emails—through a dedicated assistant agent.

This system demonstrates how tool-based delegation can automate and streamline email workflows using natural language commands.

---

## File

[gmail.hocon](../../registries/gmail.hocon)

---

## Description

At the core of the system is the Gmail Assistant agent, which serves as the primary interface between the user and the underlying Gmail tools. When a user gives an instruction—such as “find emails from Alice” or “send a follow-up email”—the agent intelligently routes the request to the appropriate tool in the Gmail Toolkit.

- **Modular Email Management**: Each Gmail operation is encapsulated in a tool, making the system easily extensible and composable.

- **Context-Aware Execution**: The assistant handles multi-step tasks by chaining tool outputs.

- **Natural Language Control**: Users can express email intents conversationally, without needing to know the underlying API details.

---

## Prerequisites

- This agent is **disabled by default**. To test it, get `credentials.json` by following the instructions from [https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/api/quickstart/python#authorize_credentials_for_a_desktop_application.](https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/api/quickstart/python#authorize_credentials_for_a_desktop_application) and place it at the top level of the repo.
  
---

## Example Conversation

### Human:
```
Can you check if I received an email from Jane yesterday?
```

### AI (Gmail Assistant):
```
Yes, you received an email from Jane yesterday at 3:47 PM with the subject "Project Update". Would you like me to summarize it for you?
```

---

## Architecture Overview

### Frontman Agent: Gmail Assistant

- Main entry point for user instructions related to Gmail.

- Interprets commands and delegates tasks to the Gmail Toolkit.

- Coordinates tool outputs to fulfill complex or multi-step actions.

---

## Tools from toolbox: gmail_handler

These tools are defined in the `gmail_toolkit`, a lanchian toolkit that is implemented via `toolbox` and are called as needed by the assistant:

- Email Search (GmailSearch)

- Email Reader (GmailGetMessage)

- Thread Reader (GmailGetThread)

- Draft Composer (GmailCreateDraft)

- Email Sender (GmailSendMessage)

---

## Debugging Hints

When developing or debugging the Gmail Assistant, keep the following in mind:

- Make sure the `gmail_handler` tool is correctly registered and mapped to the gmail_toolkit.

- Confirm that the Gmail API credentials and OAuth flow are correctly configured.

- Check that each tool receives the necessary arguments (e.g., query, message_id, thread_id, etc.).

- Look at the assistant's delegation logic—ensure it performs appropriate tool calls in the expected sequence.

- Use logging to verify whether drafts are being created and sent as intended.

---

## Resources
- [LangChain Gmail Toolkit Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/tools/gmail/)
Overview and usage examples of the Gmail tools from the LangChain ecosystem.

- [Toolbox implemenation](https://github.com/cognizant-ai-lab/neuro-san-studio/blob/main/docs/user_guide.md#toolbox)
Learn how Neuro-SAN integrates tools from langchain including setup, configuration, and tool extension.

Commit message:

- Add comment about installing langchain-google-community\[gmail\] and fix typo

docs/examples/gmail.md, after:

# Gmail Assistant

The **Gmail Assistant** is a task-oriented agentic system designed to help users manage their Gmail accounts efficiently. It leverages a specialized toolkit of Gmail-related tools—such as searching, reading, drafting, and sending emails—through a dedicated assistant agent.

This system demonstrates how tool-based delegation can automate and streamline email workflows using natural language commands.

---

## File

[gmail.hocon](../../registries/gmail.hocon)

---

## Description

At the core of the system is the Gmail Assistant agent, which serves as the primary interface between the user and the underlying Gmail tools. When a user gives an instruction—such as “find emails from Alice” or “send a follow-up email”—the agent intelligently routes the request to the appropriate tool in the Gmail Toolkit.

- **Modular Email Management**: Each Gmail operation is encapsulated in a tool, making the system easily extensible and composable.

- **Context-Aware Execution**: The assistant handles multi-step tasks by chaining tool outputs.

- **Natural Language Control**: Users can express email intents conversationally, without needing to know the underlying API details.

---

## Prerequisites

- This agent is **disabled by default**. To test it,
    - ```base
        pip install -U langchain-google-community\[gmail\]
        ```
    - get `credentials.json` by following the instructions from [https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/api/quickstart/python#authorize_credentials_for_a_desktop_application.](https://developers.google.com/workspace/gmail/api/quickstart/python#authorize_credentials_for_a_desktop_application) and place it at the top level of the repo.
  
---

## Example Conversation

### Human:
```
Can you check if I received an email from Jane yesterday?
```

### AI (Gmail Assistant):
```
Yes, you received an email from Jane yesterday at 3:47 PM with the subject "Project Update". Would you like me to summarize it for you?
```

---

## Architecture Overview

### Frontman Agent: Gmail Assistant

- Main entry point for user instructions related to Gmail.

- Interprets commands and delegates tasks to the Gmail Toolkit.

- Coordinates tool outputs to fulfill complex or multi-step actions.

---

## Tools from toolbox: gmail_handler

These tools are defined in the `gmail_toolkit`, a langchian toolkit that is implemented via `toolbox` and are called as needed by the assistant:

- Email Search (GmailSearch)

- Email Reader (GmailGetMessage)

- Thread Reader (GmailGetThread)

- Draft Composer (GmailCreateDraft)

- Email Sender (GmailSendMessage)

---

## Debugging Hints

When developing or debugging the Gmail Assistant, keep the following in mind:

- Make sure the `gmail_handler` tool is correctly registered and mapped to the gmail_toolkit.

- Confirm that the Gmail API credentials and OAuth flow are correctly configured.

- Check that each tool receives the necessary arguments (e.g., query, message_id, thread_id, etc.).

- Look at the assistant's delegation logic—ensure it performs appropriate tool calls in the expected sequence.

- Use logging to verify whether drafts are being created and sent as intended.

---

## Resources
- [LangChain Gmail Toolkit Documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/tools/gmail/)
Overview and usage examples of the Gmail tools from the LangChain ecosystem.

- [Toolbox implemenation](https://github.com/cognizant-ai-lab/neuro-san-studio/blob/main/docs/user_guide.md#toolbox)
Learn how Neuro-SAN integrates tools from langchain including setup, configuration, and tool extension.
