docs/examples.md, before:

# Examples

Here are a few examples ordered by level of complexity.

## Music Nerd

[Music Nerd](./examples/music_nerd.md) is a very simple agent network with a single agent,
used as a "Hello world!" example. It can also be used to test for follow-up questions and deterministic answers.

## Music Nerd Pro

[Music Nerd Pro](./examples/music_nerd_pro.md) is a simple agent network with a frontman agent and a "Coded Tool".
This is a good way to learn about how to call Python code from an agent.

## Music Nerd Local

Exact copy of [Music Nerd](./examples/music_nerd.md) that uses an LLM that runs locally with Ollama.

## Music Nerd Pro Local

Exact copy of [Music Nerd Pro](./examples/music_nerd_pro.md) that uses a **tool-calling** LLM that runs locally with Ollama.

## Airline Policy 360 Assistant

[Airline Policy 360 Assistant](./examples/airline_policy.md) is a sophisticated multi-agent system designed to manage and respond to customer inquiries by referring to related airline policies with structured delegation. It mimics a real-world helpdesk with specialized teams, each handling a specific domain of airline policies such as baggage, flights, international travel, and more.

Commit message:

Add a version of music nerd pro that uses sly_data to manage a state

docs/examples.md, after:

# Examples

Here are a few examples ordered by level of complexity.

## Music Nerd

[Music Nerd](./examples/music_nerd.md) is a very simple agent network with a single agent,
used as a "Hello world!" example. It can also be used to test for follow-up questions and deterministic answers.

## Music Nerd Pro

[Music Nerd Pro](./examples/music_nerd_pro.md) is a simple agent network with a frontman agent and a "Coded Tool".
This is a good way to learn about how to call Python code from an agent.

## Music Nerd Local

Exact copy of [Music Nerd](./examples/music_nerd.md) that uses an LLM that runs locally with Ollama.

## Music Nerd Pro Local

Exact copy of [Music Nerd Pro](./examples/music_nerd_pro.md) that uses
a **tool-calling** LLM that runs locally with Ollama.

## Music Nerd Pro Sly

Copy of [Music Nerd Pro](./examples/music_nerd_pro.md) that uses `sly_data` to keep track of a variable.
This is a good way to learn about how to manage a state in a conversation.

## Music Nerd Pro Sly Local

Exact copy of [Music Nerd Pro Sly](./examples/music_nerd_pro_sly.md) that uses
a **tool-calling** LLM that runs locally with Ollama.

## Airline Policy 360 Assistant

[Airline Policy 360 Assistant](./examples/airline_policy.md) is a sophisticated multi-agent system designed to manage and respond to customer inquiries by referring to related airline policies with structured delegation. It mimics a real-world helpdesk with specialized teams, each handling a specific domain of airline policies such as baggage, flights, international travel, and more.
